# This Folder Contains Data Analysis and Code

This folder contains the unfiltered code and data analysis. I recommend only looking over this folder if you 
wish to understand, view, or critique (would love that) the analysis completed. Otherwise, if you wish to view 
the more...comprehendable conclusion and insights, view the summary of findings on my website 
[here](https://andrew-morgan-website.herokuapp.com/my-posts/posts/3).

## Analysis of the Human Freedom Index 

This is the Repo for the Analysis of Cato Institute's Human Freedom Index.

Details of the Report published annually (We are using the 2016 version), can be found at: 

https://www.cato.org/human-freedom-index-new

Dataset Acquired at Kaggle:

https://www.kaggle.com/gsutters/the-human-freedom-index

## Inside the Repo:

The RMarkdown files, R scripts, knitted PDFs, and the dataset itself are located in this directory. 
In order to run the script, the user must correctly identify the correct path that the dataset is on the hard drive. 
The proper libraries must be installed, and errors will be thrown if they are not installed.

The Libraries Used are:
gbm, calibrate, gam, boot, splines, dplyr, ggplot2, FNN, glmnet, pls, MASS, leaps, 
tree, rpart.plot, randomForest, reshape2

The Script named "Install_Library_Script.R" will install all the libraries listed here. 
All libraries on the computer will be updated and overwritten by this script if they do exist.

## Specific Files

### **INSTALL SCRIPT** is the "Install_Libraries_Script.R" file

Use this R file to install the open-source packages the analysis is dependent on. 

### Documentation_of_Code_Appendix_4.4.19.rmd:

- This R-Markdown file is my edited and improved version of the 2019 markdown file. 
- This contains all the code and analyses we performed.
- I (Andrew) have made changes and fixes to the existing code. 
  I have add the old code as well under the title "Old_2019_Code_Appendix.rmd" 
  if one is interested. Some code is missing from other miscellaneous files 
  that I have removed.
- The changes I have made were largely bug fixes, and a continuation of the existing 
  analysis that I felt was lacking (like the polynomial regression, GAMs, Splines, 
  and boosting). Additionally, I refactored the code to be more programmatic.
- Ultimately, the results were unchanged from 2 years ago. However, the overall 
  analysis is in an improved state. 
    
### Old_2019_Code_Appendix.rmd is the old file from 2019 compiled as a group

### Printed Report (HTML and PDF)

These are the knitted reports generated by the R-Markdown. They are incredibly 
long and dense. I only reccommend the brave (or stupid) and knowledgeable in 
statistics to read through. Even then, I would highly recommend my summary found on 
my website [here](https://andrew-morgan-website.herokuapp.com/my-posts/posts/3).